List of Programs on OOPS with C++
1. Write a program to calculate GCD of two numbers with recursion and without recursion.

2. Write a program to find Largest of Three Numbers.

3. Write a program to Check Palindrome Number.

4. Write a program to find Product of Digits in a Number.

5. Write a program to find Prime Factors of a Number.

6. Write a program to Reverse a Number.

7. Write a program to find Sum of Digits in a Number.

8. Write a program to find Sum of n Even and Odd.

9. Write a program to find Sum of First and Last Digit of a Number.

10.Write a program to find Find Sum of Series 1²+2²+3²+n².

11.Write a program to find Sum of Series 1³+2³+3³+n³.

12.Write a program to Swap First and Last Digit in a Number.

13.Write a program to remove the duplicates from an array.

14.Write a program that prints a table indicating the number of occurrences of each alphabet in the text
entered as command line arguments.

15.Write a menu driven program to perform string manipulation (without using inbuilt string functions):
a. Show address of each character in string
b. Concatenate two strings.
c. Compare two strings
d. Calculate length of the string (use pointers)
e. Convert all lowercase characters to uppercase
f. Reverse the string

16.Insert a string in another string at a user specified position

17.Write a program to merge two ordered arrays to get a single ordered array.

18.Write a program to search a given element in a set of N numbers using Binary Search with recursion
and without recursion.

19.Write a program to Check two Matrixes are Equal.

20.Write a program to find Determinant of a Matrix.

21.Write a program to Check Identity Matrix.

22.Write a program to Check Sparse Matrix.

23.Write a program to find the Sum of Opposite Diagonal of a Matrix.

24.Write a program to the Sum of Matrix Diagonal.

25.Write a program to find the Sum of Matrix Row and Column.

26.Create a Matrix class. Write a menu-driven program to perform following Matrix operations
(exceptions should be thrown by the functions if matrices passed to them are incompatible and
handled by the main() function):
a. Sum
b. Product
c. Transpose

27.Define a class Person having name as a data member. Inherit two classes Student and Employee from
Person. Student has additional attributes as course, marks and year and Employee has department
and salary. Write display() method in all the three classes to display the corresponding attributes.
Provide the necessary methods to show runtime polymorphism.

28.Create a Triangle class. Add exception handling statements to ensure the following conditions: all
sides are greater than 0 and sum of any two sides is greater than the third side. The class should also
have overloaded functions for calculating the area of a right angled triangle as well as using Heron's
formula to calculate the area of any type of triangle.

29.Create a class Student containing fields for Roll No., Name, Class, Year and Total Marks. Write a
program to store 5 objects of Student class in a file. Retrieve these records from the file and display
them.

30.Copy the contents of one text file to another file, after removing all whitespaces.

31.Write a program in C++ to implement database of persons having different profession e,g. engineer,
doctor, student, laborer etc. using the concept of multiple inheritance. The objective of this
assignment is to learn the concepts of inheritance.

32.Write a program in C++ to sort the numbers in an array using separate functions for read, display,
sort and swap. The objective of this assignment is to learn the concepts of input, output, functions,
call by reference in C++.

33.Write a program in C++ to perform following operations on complex numbers Add, Subtract,
Multiply, Divide, Complex conjugate. Design the class for complex number representation and the
operations to be performed. The objective of this assignment is to learn the concepts classes and
objects

34.Write a program in C++ to perform following operations on complex numbers Add, Subtract,
Multiply, Divide. Use operator overloading for these operations. The objective of this assignment is
to learn the concepts operator overloading.

35.Write a program to perform the deletion of white spaces such as horizontal tab, vertical tab, space,
line feed, new line and carriage return from a text file and store the contents of the file without
whitespaces on another file.

36.Write a program to read the class object of student info such as name, age ,sex ,height and weight
from the keyboard and to store them on a specified file using read() and write() functions. Again
thesame file is opened for reading and displaying the contents of the file on the screen.

37.Create a base class basic info with data members name ,roll no, sex and two member functions
getdata and display. Derive a class physical fit from basic info which has data members height and
weight and member functions getdata and display. Display all the information using object of derived
class.

38.Design three classes STUDENT, EXAM and RESULT. The STUDENT class has data members such as
rollno, name. Create a class EXAM by inheriting the STUDENT class. The EXAM class adds data
members representing the marks scored in six subjects. Derive the RESULT from the EXAM class and
has its own data members such as total marks. Write a program to model this relationship.

39.Write a function power to raise a number m to power n. The function takes a double value for m and
int value for Use default value for n to make the function to calculate squares when this argument is
omitted.

40.Create a class TIME with members hours, minutes, seconds. Take input, add two time objects passing
objects to function and display result.

41.Create a class Student which has data members as name, branch, roll no, age, sex, marks in five
subjects. Display the name of the student and his percentage that has more than 70%.Use array of
objects.
